message to pereg agrawal
ceo of twitter
dear mr agrawal
i wrote this when it was literally two
in the morning
during my recent visit to beautiful
samos greece where i was on business
attending to my efforts on the
educational front i woke up suddenly
from my slumbers with you and your
company on my mind
in my jet-lagged state
unable to drowze further and so i sat
there writing instead of sleeping which
the more cautious and sensible part of
me wished devoutly
i was able to do instead
a few weeks ago the wise folks at
twitter deemed it necessary
to suspend my access to that platform
despite the fact that i had several
million followers
despite the fact that i had used the
platform in good faith
despite the fact that i had put in the
years of time and effort
necessary to gain such an extensive
following
despite the fact as well
that i was a genuine force on twitter
trending with a rather appalling and
frightening degree of regularity
in many ways i'm your monster
sir
the reason for the suspension
it's not exactly clear because
very little is exactly clear mr agrawal
with regard to your social media network
apart from the fact that you allow
an awful lot of misbehavior
what with the appalling proliferation of
anonymous and near demonic trolls and
bots
and professional manipulation of the
public space by actors such as the
russian and chinese governments
and the proclivity of your own people
to censor only those voices
they don't agree with
politically
the tweet
that brought about my suspension was one
directed for better or worse at the
actress slash actor ellen now elliott
page
who i criticized along with his or her
physician
for publicly trumpeting and publicizing
the decision to have her perfectly
functional breasts removed in the
attempt to switch sexes
which decision was up to him or her and
appropriately i at least half suppose
but which also served as a much
publicized more than a million and a
half instagram likes
model
for confused adolescents who might be
considering in their juvenile confusion
walking down the same direly and
irreversibly damaging road
i don't think for a moment that it was
even the criticism per se
that resulted in my ban
but my use of ellen's original name
a practice which the
exceptionally active yet exceptionally
tiny and noisy and endlessly troublesome
trans activist so-called community
has decided to term
dead naming
and which has in consequence
become by their anarchic and
presumptuous fiat
the modern equivalent of a mortal sin
but
i don't know
do i
because your idiot policies of arbitrary
exclusion are unbelievably
and appallingly ill-defined
thus
i'm not granted the opportunity to face
my accuser or accusers is there just one
are there many who are they exactly are
they inside or outside of twitter why
have they been granted this
decision-making power
and i continue
not to know
even though i followed your equally
ill-defined and parameterized appeal
process
with regard to this censorious and
judgmental action
undertaken in the shadowy background
of your equally shadowy company
as i have yet to hear anything at all
from the powers that be at twitter
on
that
appeal front
but i know absolutely
that you know personally of my
suspension
and that you have been questioned about
that because i have been told by a very
good and exceedingly influential friend
of mine who spoke directly to you very
recently that he asked you just exactly
what in hell you were thinking when you
banned me and i also have heard that an
equally or even more influential person
with whom you have also recently had
very public dealings which did not turn
out well for your company
has raised
exactly the same concerns
and i also know
that your demented and presumptuous
minions
have their eagle eye
on my account or that a coterie of
influential activists is monitoring my
online behavior on twitter assiduously
despite my banning
how exactly have i come by this
information
well
two days ago i deleted the
ellen page tweet
why
when i said quite publicly that i would
rather die than do so
well
i needed to do some house cleaning on my
account in relationship to some other
tweets i had posted many months ago
a relatively minor matter but one that
became a somewhat pressing practical
necessity
afterward
i reposted a screenshot of the page
tweet stating that i was obliged to do
so as i had given my word that i would
not delete it despite my suspension and
the attempt at public shaming that that
suspension hypothetically constituted
and
bingo
within hours
i was banned again
so your staff can act pretty damn fast
when it comes to registering and
reacting to my hypothetical misbehavior
but are pretty darn slow when it comes
to say
responding in any manner whatsoever to
the appeal i submitted objecting to the
ban or at least raising questions about
its rationale
now those
opposed to my views and indeed the fact
of my very existence might object
and do so frequently and vociferously on
your hellhole of a platform
hey
self-proclaimed evil capitalist and
proclaimer of the value of free speech
the ceo of free market twitter and his
propagandistic minions
have the right to allow or disallow
anyone they choose to post on their
privately owned platform
and that is true
you and they
see that care with pronouns
have that right
but have also clearly accepted a
commensurate
although more implicit responsibility
in principle at least twitter is a
platform
that owes its very existence
to the habit tradition and right of free
speech the very foundation stone of the
great country in which you operate
and has as the only possible
justification for that existence outside
of sheer instrumental greed
its hypothetical contribution to the
exchange of views that make up part of
philosophical and political discourse
and humor and wit and indeed
the narcissistic and often near
psychopathic commentary that accompanies
such exchange particularly in its
electronically mediated form
and i would say
that your company does a remarkably and
singularly bad job of bearing that
responsibility
as
your former security lead has just
fortuitously pointed out
in an interview in time magazine which
is not exactly a bastion of the
conservative or even classic liberal
thought that you seem to oppose so
randomly arbitrarily casually
high-handedly
and inappropriately
peter zatko your former security lead
has
painted in the words of that same time
magazine quote
a damning portrait of a company in
crisis
in an 84-page complaint
to federal regulatory agencies and the
department of justice which was first
reported by the washington post and cnn
and which time obtained from a
congressional source
he describes twitter as
crippled
by rudderless and dishonest leadership
beset by egregious privacy and security
flaws tainted by foreign influence a
danger to national security and
susceptible even to total
collapse
that's
a lot of flaws
mr agrawal
for someone who also seems to believe
that the arbitrary suspension of the
truly bad people such as myself
is a moral necessity to keep the sphere
of public discourse
pristine
and
we might also point out since we're
talking about moral insufficiency
that your recent discussions with elon
musk didn't fare so well
did they
since your company seemed utterly unable
or unwilling to specify even the
percentage of fake bought accounts
active on twitter a supporter of twitter
might object mr musk was just looking
for the way out of a bad deal
i personally find that argument weak to
the point of preposterousness
it's not at all obvious to me that mr
elon musk is anyone's fool
particularly not twitters
and one thing that absolutely remarkable
man did
was reveal to the world just how
troubled your much vaunted and
incredibly troublesome social media
network
really is
and on the heels of the debacle
this whistleblower emerged
not a good month for you
following as you have so recently in the
footsteps of mr jack dorsey
who also
seemed to regard the twitter snake pit
he helped establish but could not
eventually regulate as a very good place
to depart
and then we must discuss
the issue of donald trump
i would not exactly describe myself as a
supporter of mr trump
although i probably would have voted for
him instead of hillary had i been
american although who knows when push
comes to shove
and do not possess the paranoia with
regard to his machinations
that characterizes his most fervent and
often near deluded opponents
i think that on the campaign trail and
in office he capitalized somewhat
dangerously
on the resentment festering among the
working class
who were so carelessly and foolishly and
arrogantly abandoned by their former
political representatives on the
democratic side under hillary clinton
who
richly deserved in consequence the moral
drubbing she received at trump's hand
i think that appealing to that
resentment
instead of putting forth a positive
alternative vision although he did offer
some of that risked
increasing the sense that the
fundamental institutions of america your
great country have now been rendered
permanently untrustworthy instead of
simply in need of some reparative vision
some maintenance and a modicum of
necessary house cleaning i believe this
was a mistake because the radical
leftists who believe that everything
should be burned to the ground
constitution capitalism tradition
identity
make the same claims
and they are the most dangerous
opponents of the conservatives
hypothetically represented by the
republicans
and the last thing we need on the more
traditional and cautious side
is anything that makes those radical
claims appear valid
i also believe that mr trump aired
greatly not least
strategically
in his decision to push the narrative of
stolen election
even if he is correct
and i don't believe that he is
technically
even though he was treated more
despicably and unfairly and
prejudicially by his political opponents
than any u.s leader in living memory
the former 45th president of the united
states has spent a lifetime advertising
himself and very successfully
as the very model of a winner
as the man to whom such things as having
an entire country stolen out from under
him simply couldn't happen as the man
whose business acumen and street smarts
were such that he could outwit and out
fox and charm
not only the world's most dangerous and
intractable dictators but his own nearby
opponents on the political front in his
own country
i do
understand as i said that many
unpalatable and immoral broadsides were
launched against mr trump
including his banning from twitter mr
agrawal a stain on the political
landscape which has not yet been
scrubbed away
and i can understand why he feels
uniquely embattled
but i stand by my diagnosis
the donald went off-brand in a
potentially fatal manner when he decided
to cast himself
as yet another victim
but mr trump also accomplished
some singular things in my estimation
and got very little credit for it where
credit
was clearly due he warned the europeans
a few years ago in no uncertain terms
that their virtue signaling submission
to the so-called environmentalist and
utterly economically and practically
deranged globalist utopians
was going to bring them great grief
not least
by placing them under putin's thumb
and was roundly and thoroughly pilloried
for offering this absolutely accurate
and self-evident diagnosis
as he was for so much of what he did
and
how much more correct could it be been
as current events have clearly
demonstrated
and trump's team
finalized
the abraham accords
which could obviously have been expanded
more recently to include the saudis
the saudis
who work diligently in the background to
make that impossible peace with israel a
reality
who offer at least a comparatively
desirable alternative to the iranians
and who might well have been willing to
provide the emergency fossil fuel that
would have kept gasoline and heating and
cooling prices down for americans at the
pump and at home
if their rulers hadn't been hectored on
very dubious moral grounds
by the unwise actors constituting the
current democrat administration
president obama
received a nobel prize
for doing nothing but winning a
presidential election while being black
to put it bluntly and i think he knew it
although he cravenly accepted the prize
anyway
trump and his team and all the people
from the middle east involved in the
abraham accords
received almost no legacy press
attention certainly none that was
positive and certainly no nobel prize
even though what they managed was
clearly the most significant advance on
the peace front in that embattled region
since world war ii
at minimum
and your company had the presumption to
ban mr trump despite the fact that he
was the democratic choice of the
majority of your populace
elected president remember and you
haven't seen fit to lift that ban
despite the fact
that there is truly no shortage of
genuinely bad actors on your very poorly
run platform and despite the fact that
you simply do not have the moral
standing or the authority in the most
fundamental moral rather than narrowly
legalistic sense
to interfere in the operation of the
polity that encompasses your operation
and that you hypothetically are bound in
allegiance to
and you banned
and haven't lifted that ban on trump
despite the fact that the ban in all
likelihood given the centrality and
sacrality of freedom of speech
did
more harm than good
even if the idea that trump was not good
for the country in the main
is accepted
many many people have come to distrust
twitter
and indeed
the entire domain of corporate sponsored
or hosted public dialogue
because of the murky nature of your
decisions to censor or allow
and that has allowed the paranoia and
distrust etc that your company was
hypothetically opposed to when trump was
hypothetically and uniquely because why
ban only him generating
in my opinion
pushing trump underground
to the degree that you did
made everything that was objectionable
about his mode of action in terms of its
public effect worse
not better
and i don't see any evidence whatsoever
that you have seriously contended with
that possibility
at all
there is plenty of destructive
conspiratorial thinking on the right
some of which has turned out to be all
too justified
and persecuting those who tend toward
that form of conceptualization
certainly
exacerbates
the tendency
but
in this era of self-defined identity you
and your people feel good about it
and that's what counts
although objective facts tend to be
pesky things and they are not so easily
dispensed with
you could have just let him continue
with his twitter actions
and let the people judge
that's what the constitution of your
country
enables them to do and you interfered
with that and you haven't changed your
mind and you've doubled down instead
despite the revelation of your own
companies clear
and ongoing moral and practical
inadequacy
back to my situation
from the domain of more general concerns
about censorship and carelessness
i have frankly
founded a relief to be banished
from the twitter world
the anonymous trolls
psychopaths narcissists and
machiavellians allowed
by your own inconsistent and
psychologically inappropriate rules
make operating there on any scale
frustrating and anger provoking
beyond tolerance the fact that you so
casually enable that tiny minority of
cowardly anonymous people who have
nothing better to do than cause trouble
by generating and promulgating the kind
of derisive contemptuous l-o-l-l-m-f-a-o
bro bra dude comments
that would get anyone
who dared utter even one of them in
person to their targets immediately
punched in that mocking cowardly
self-aggrandizing face
means that your platform represents a
signal threat to the integrity of the
discourse
upon which the stability of your country
and the mental health of its youth
depend
as you have been directly warned by
psychologists of great repute
such as dr jonathan height as moderate
and wise a learned person as you could
hope to have
for counsel
in consequence
i see very little evidence that you have
the ability
or the vision or the concern necessary
to set the pathological den of serpents
that you so apparently carelessly enable
and govern
straight
and that is a very dire problem
set to get much worse
as this falls crucially important
elections loom
a very small minority of truly
misbehaving people pose a constant
threat
to the integrity of society as
they eternally have
and your electronically mediated
communication system with its ultimately
and oh so morally but exceedingly
carelessly flattened social hierarchy
where
anyone
whatsoever even someone who bears no
responsibility and who wishes to
continue that way can say anything
whatsoever to anyone they choose in any
manner whatsoever
and can do so even if they
literally do not exist
and are lying outright in the most
egregious and troublesome fashion
imaginable
is doing nothing but magnifying their
positively demonic voices and spreading
the chaos those voices are evilly
motivated
to generate
i wouldn't claim that my behavior on
twitter was perfect or indeed that any
of my behavior is perfect
twitter is a very difficult platform to
use properly and i have plenty to learn
on that front
i didn't want to ignore twitter despite
its pitfalls even though i probably
should have because for better or worse
your platform is a major social player
and psychological slash
sociological phenomenon one that i
wanted to and needed to and felt a real
responsibility to understand
and one that is impossible to understand
let alone master or diagnose without its
actual use
but
i tweeted several thousand times
to many millions of people
and only a vanishingly small percentage
of those missives
caused the kind of concern that might
properly culminate in disciplinary
actions to say nothing of outright
bannings if they were conducted with a
shred of decency and care
and i have taken very public steps to
rectify and modify my inadequacies
on the communication front
it is therefore
by no means clear that you or those who
help you run your benighted and blighted
direct democracy mob rule psychopath
dominated communication platform have
the moral standing
to render the kind of arbitrary and
careless judgment on the behavior of
others you deem
inappropriate
who also just by coincidence don't
happen to share your progressive
political views
you have
as
noted previously
the technical right
to do so which you do and should
but on the moral front you and twitter
have an awful lot to learn
and a clear and pressing responsibility
to take action on that front
as the power of your platform is immense
and i think
the actions of your company are in the
main
making things in the world
much worse
than they need to be and i have thought
deeply about it and talked to many wise
and informed people about it as well
and they agree and are equally or more
concerned
so
i am for that reason unwilling to
quietly accede
to your kind corrective
repetitive insistent
and thoroughly public
though it has been
i would also in closing like to
reiterate my irritation at the facts
that one
i was banned from your platform without
anything other than a generic and
self-serving low resolution explanation
two
that my appeal of that ban was ignored
even though my repetition of the
aforesaid behavior was noted and acted
upon within hours if not minutes
three
that your company's reasons for banning
and manipulating or regulating the
behavior of your users are utterly
opaque ineffectual and self
contradictory
for
that your own security personnel and
potential investors or even purchasers
of your company have been properly
scared off by the chaos that reigns
under your authority
five that you take to yourself the moral
propriety necessary
to continue censoring a former president
of the united states even as a critical
election approaches without knowing at
all whether or not you are making even
the situation under him that you object
to worse instead of better and have
absolutely no reliable data pertaining
to that possibility and finally
six
that your careless sensorious behavior
and enabling of the anonymous
machiavellian narcissists and
psychopaths who inhabit the twitter
troll underworld is warping and
dementing the entire domain of public
discourse
people who live in glass houses mr
agrawal
and you might ask yourself by the way
who cast the first stone